---
title: Building competence
prev_section: contracts.html
next_section: courses-and-event-production.html
---

h1(content-listing-header sans). Building competence

As shown in "Why this works":why-this-works.html, competence is crucial! If we don't keep building competence, our model will probably stop working in the long run.

Fortunately, {{site.company_name}} is built around individuals who love learning anyway, so it's really just a matter of making sure nothing gets in the way! So we don't have training budgets and approval processes and things like that, we just trust people to manage their own money and take responsibility for their own competence development.

Here are some things we do to keep learning:

* Presentations to each other at our team meetings
* Attending and Organizing community events and conferences
* Peer-coaching workshops, where the agile coaches meet to help each other solve problems
* Active "mailing list":mail-conventions.html and chat
* Create and teach courses! (gives the teacher a very strong motivation to learn the topic!)
* Pair-coach and pair-teach - lets us steal tricks from each other
* Share all course material with each other (mostly via Dropbox and Google Drive)

Some of these forums are very active and some less so, it varies over time. But it sure adds up to a lot of opportunity to learn!

At the end of the day, though, it's up to each consultant to reserve the time needed to learn new stuff, and not always be 100% booked up with grunt work.
