---
title: Conflict handling
prev_section: crisplets.html
next_section: contracts.html
---

h1(content-listing-header sans). Conflict handling

The way we deal with conflict is really important - some conflicts are healthy and productive and drive improvement - other conflicts are ugly and political and suck the soul out of the culture. We obviously want more of the former and less of the latter!

Conflict handling gets a bit tricky with organizations like {{site.company_name}}, with everything bottom-up and no managers. We've done pretty OK so far, but we want to get better.

Inspired by the book "Reinventing Organizations":http://www.reinventingorganizations.com, we've learned that self-organization at scale really needs an explicit conflict handling strategy, a simple process that everyone needs to be bought into. So that's what we're experimenting with now.

Here's our first take, basically a 3-step conflict escalation process.

h2. Our conflict handling process (ongoing experiment!)

1. I take responsibility for bringing up and sorting out any gravel with the involved person(s) ASAP, or accept it and let it go for real (= don't complain). If someone brings up gravel with me, I will meet up.

_... if the conflict didn't get solved:_

2. Invite a facilitator/mediator that both parties trust. The facilitator's role is to help the parties find a mutually acceptable solution, not try to force his/her own solution upon the conflicting parties.

_... if the conflict didn't get solved:_

3. Moose-head meeting at {{site.company_name}} ASAP with the involved parties.

h2. Gravel? Moose head? Huh?

Glad you asked!

Gravel is a metaphor for small annoying problems that, if left unfixed, will get worse over time. For example a piece of gravel in your shoe. Best strategy is to stop and remove it as soon as you notice it.

Moose head is a metaphor for a big ugly stinking thing sitting on the table. It brings the mood down, but it's been around for so long that few people notice it any more, and those who do don't dare mention it or do anything about it.

The purpose of our conflict handling process is to catch Gravel before it becomes a Moose head!

h2. How is this intended to be used?

All partners agree to use the Conflict Resolution protocol.  If they choose not to, we'd expect to see a drop in happiness, which we can help solve.
