---
title: the verseworks DNA
next_section: what-is-crisp.html
---
h1. Introduction


We are inspired by the "Crisp DNA":http://dna.crisp.se , and do not currently know of a better model for consulting that aligns with our values.

The model enables us to have the advantages of being independent, and the strength of being part of a larger entity.  In the future, we envisage joining like minded partner companies both locally and globally through a “backbone”, such that we can scale, collaborate and learn with others.

One consequence of this model is that we forsake profiting from our consultants, partners and associates.  Briefly, this is because we believe:
* this creates a dilemma between the interests of the client, the partners and associates
* the process of deciding what is fair leads to complex agreements, unproductive negotiations, opacity and stress
* profiting from others by making an introduction to a client to practice their craft is inappropriate.

This does not mean we are a charity.  On the contrary, we expect to be paid for our time.  But we choose simplicity, transparency and clear ethics rather than a few extra pounds.

h1. verseworks

"verseworks":https://www.verseworks.com is a consulting company based in the United Kingdom. But we aren't a very typical consulting company.

* None of our consultants are employed by {{ site.company_name }}
* We have no managers, not even a CEO. Instead we rely on self-organization and transparency. Almost everything is bottom-up, and "anyone can drive any decision":decisions.html.
* verseworks doesn't want to earn money from it's consultants. It is in practice a non-profit company (although not formally so). Consultants "keep most of what they earn":economic-model.html.


<!--

I think this is better explained in our drivers, we want both client and consultants to be happy.

  * Crisp's main purpose is to enable consultants to be happy, and "Crisp Happiness Index":happiness-index.html is our driving metric. Strong revenue and delighted customers are a side effect, not a goal.

-->


* Our "ownership model":ownership-model.html is designed to keep our stock financially worthless. There is no incentive to "cash in".
* Consultants are 100% autonomous. They can do whatever they want (as long as they don't hurt the brand or "our house":what-is-crisp.html), and work as much or as little as they want.

We are deeply indebted to our friends who have helped us along this journey, and understand how this works in practice:
* Michael Gothe
* Thomas Bjorkholm
* James Priest

h2. Why open-source the verseworks DNA?

* To make the world a better place! The model has helped us be happy and make a positive impact in the world, and publishing it may help others do the same.
* Open-sourcing it is a fun social experiment, we're curious about what's going to happen :o)
* By making our model public, we're more likely to keep it up-to-date and improve it as we learn.
* Putting it on GitHub makes it easier for others to clone and evolve the model, and we can learn from that.

h1. Contents

h2. Driving principles

(these principles drive almost everything at {{ site.company_name }} )

* "What is {{ site.company_name }} ":what-is-crisp.html - the purpose of the company
* "How {{ site.company_name }}  works":how-crisp-works.html - summary of our model, and some driving principles.
* "Why this works":why-this-works.html - why this model has served us so well

h2. Core structure and practices

(although these are core to our model, they are mostly just consequences of the principles above)

* "Happiness index":happiness-index.html - how do we know if we are succeeding?
* "Ownership model":ownership-model.html - how do people become owners, and what ownership actually means?
* "Economic model":economic-model.html - how does money flow through the system?
* "How we make decisions":decisions.html - how do decisions get made when there is no manager?
* "Recruiting":recruiting.html - how do new people get in?
* "Communication":communication.html - how do we collaborate, sync, and improve?
* "Bun protocol":bun-protocol.html - how do we handle customer enquiries and route to the right consultant?
* "Dashboard":dashboard.html - how do we see the big picture?
* "Office team":office-team.html - how do we handle admin and day-to-day operations?
* "Board of directors":board.html - Swedish law requires that we have a BoD. So how does the BoD at Crisp work?
* "Our business":our-business.html - what type of work we do
* "Visions":visions.html - How to you get a bunch of autonomous consultants to agree on a vision? Answer: have several :o)
* "Sales":sales.html - how do we actually sell consultants?
* "{{ site.company_name }}  unconference":unconference.html - how our bi-annual unconference works

h2. Supporting practices

(relevant stuff, but not core to our model)

* "Email conventions":email-conventions.html - how we get transparency without information overflow
* "Hand signals":hand-signals.html - how do have discussions in larger groups?
* "Industries that we avoid":industries-that-we-avoid.html - why we avoid certain industries
* "Hack summit":hack-summit.html - how we geek out together
* "Crisplets":crisplets.html - how do bottom-up initiatives get funded?
* "Conflict handling":conflict-handling.html - How do we make sure conflicts are constructive rather than destructive?
* "Contracts":contracts.html - our internal contracts for Crisp membership, ownership, etc.
* "Building competence":building-competence.html - how we learn from each other and improve
* "Courses and event production":courses-and-event-production.html - how do courses and events get produced?
* "Brand building":brand-building.html - how do we build the brand, both Crisp and personal brands?

h2. Meta

* "How to clone the verseworks DNA":how-to-copy.html
