---
title: Ownership model
prev_section: happiness-index.html
next_section: economic-model.html
---


h1(content-listing-header sans). Ownership model

*{{ site.company_name }}* is a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) registered in the United Kingdom.  Each consultant is also a partner of the LLP.

All partners sign the same agreement, and are equal.

Our "recruitment process":recruiting.html describes what we are looking for in our partners.

Now you might thinking "Huh, so _anyone_ is allowed to become a partner? Really?".

Exactly! The idea is that, if we wouldn't trust someone to co-own the company, why would we trust them to represent {{ site.company_name}} at all?  If we don't trust a new partner enough to offer them joint ownership, that's a sign they shouldn't be at {{site.company_name}} at all.

h2. What does partnsership cost?

We strive to minimize the financial value of the company. Yes, you heard it right. I know, that's like the opposite of what other companies do. But remember, the purpose of {{ site.comapny_name}} is not to enrich it's owners. The purpose is to "help consultants be happy":what-is-verseworks.html.

bq. We've all seen consulting companies that work like pyramid schemes - where old-timers are like fat cats parasiting from the hard work of newcomers. That's exactly what we *don't* want to be.&lt;/rant&gt;

h2. What does partnership actually mean?

Partnership means very little in practical terms. You won't get rich, and you won't gain more influence (power is gained through meritocracy, not ownership - see our "decision process":decisions.html).

h2. What if someone buys {{site.company_name}}?

In theory someone could come along and shell out a bunch of cash to buy {{site.company_name}}, and in that case the partners would in a sense cash out. But with the current structure we see that as extremely unlikely. {{site.company_name}} itself is just a container, a platform. The real value is the consultants, and they aren't even employed by {{site.company_name}}. So although someone can technically buy {{site.company_name}}, they can't really buy the people inside {{site.company_name}}. And besides, who would buy a company that explicitly strives to minimize it's financial value :o)

But who knows. The world can be strange sometimes.
